<jim>
The group of the apostles, the group of the Gentiles in his household, and this group of 12 men who were disciples of John. So by kind of step back from this thing, look at the big picture. Let me just kind of suggest where this leaves me as I look at the big picture of the book of Acts. Does Acts teach us that there are different stages of salvation, conversion, justification, sanctification, second work of grace, some subsequent event? I do not see it. Salvation I see in New Testament is an organic whole. It is given all at once, thus Paul’s questions. They Holy Spirit, that is all a cohesive whole. He does not fragment them. He puts them all together and sees them as being a cohesive moment in life with the believers. Acts does not teach coming Holy Spirit must be accompanied by extraordinary signs because there are too many other conversions where no extraordinary signs are given unless they are being robbed of their experience or being left incomplete as Christians. And I note that it’s certain critical junctures in Acts. For good reason, there were miraculous Spirit incited unusual events.

And you’ll note that the speaking in tongues was circulated in either moments where there was great confusion, potential confusion, or resistance. It was always a group of people that were sending the message and God’s wanted to initiate it, made it happen. In each time I can find a very clear question about God raising a question and answering for people who were resistant to the will of God or were confused about the will of God. The event I find the most difficult to translate is this one we just looked at in Acts 19. I can find a clear one with the Samaritan bridging, the Gentiles bridging, but what about this one? The rationale here to make sense to me is just not as clear as you have the clear issue and this is spoken about even in the turn of the first century where there was a lot of confusion between those who came to follow John and those who came to follow Jesus. And here very clearly God was saying if there’s any confusion about who the Messiah is, let me make it really, really clear here, it’s Jesus, follow Him, not John. And so and God again in a very audio visible, irrefutable, tangible moment made it very clear what His answer was in each of those confusing, resisting moment. So there’s where I walk away with the book of Acts, when it comes to this particular issue and that particular grid I placed on it. Of course, I showed you in the beginning, we looked at Acts, I showed you the Spirit is involved in so many things and this is not a handicap of Spirit’s activities in my life, but it does give me a filter of the side from the Spirit and what is not. Now let me raise this question because this is one I’m asked a lot and then if you guys are interested I’ll tell you about when I went through all this. This phrase, baptism in the Holy Spirit or baptism with the Holy Spirit. Let me see if I can take you to just a clear textual framework for this out of the book of Acts and see if this makes some sense to you. What does it actually mean? Well, first of all I want you to see that it’s spoken of back in the first chapter. This came from the lips of Jesus himself when he was commissioning them before his ascension after his resurrection. 40 days of resurrection of parents was giving many convincing proofs that he was alive and bodily form and in his new transformed glorious body. And it says:
</jim>

<acts>once when he was eating with them, he commanded them, do not leave Jerusalem until the Father sends you the gift he promised. As I told you before, John baptized with water, but just in a few days, you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.</acts>

– Acts 1:4-5. Version not stated in the audio; class wording is NIV-like.

<jim>So you see that phrase right there, baptized with the Holy Spirit. A few days later, probably around 10 days later in actuality, on the day of Pentecost. After four days of resurrection of parents, Jesus ascends and so I know it’s at least 10 days later. We read this. Remember we read the verses beginning of chapter two, you had the sound of the mighty rushing wind, the tongues the fire lighting upon them and it says they all began to speak in tongues and other tongues. And they get out there in the porticole areas and people start drawing to this, having heard the sound of the mighty rushing wind and they each heard them speaking in their own language and praising God and so it all begins. So after all the people are getting there, people are beginning to raise questions like what’s taking place here. Peter then steps forward amongst the 12 and says, let me tell you. Chapter two, verse 16. And this goes after the, he says, no, remember the guy said, oh, they’re just a bunch of drunks, which I find interesting. There’s more already in the beginning of this thing, making light of it. He says, no, what you see was predicted long ago by the prophet Joel. And those to phrase the Joel uses.</jim>

<acts>In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit. Upon all people, your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams. In those days, I will pour out my spirit even on my sermon and men and women of light and they will prophesy.</acts>

– Acts 2:16-18. Version not stated in the audio; class wording is NIV-like.

<jim>Now, what I want you to see here is that you’ve got the word baptism, baptism in Holy Spirit here. And obviously, very clearly, you’re seeing this event is this event. Baptism used as one perspective pouring being the other. I meant to have a glass of water with me. And then another glass that was empty and and pour one into the other.</jim>
