Alright, we are doing a study in the Holy Spirit. I am building I hope in some way that y'all kind of step up with each of these things.
I'm framing them around questions and the question that we're now going to enter into and not complete is how do we receive the Holy Spirit?
Because I could ask you, you know, so do you have the Holy Spirit? And the downloaded answer is, well I was told I did.
Everyone talks about it like I'm supposed to because I'm a Christian. So I guess, yeah I do. And of course that's somewhat of a mindless perception and I'm not sure if that counts.
So how do you know? And I can frame this question in different ways, not only how do you receive the Spirit, how is it received, but can you be a Christian and not have the Spirit into all of you?
If so, having the Spirit mean that you're more advanced as a Christian.
We can be able to judgment thought. I do know there are those who do think of it in that term. What conditions must be met to receive the Spirit?
You know, is there any context for this? So that's kind of where I'm going with this and I hope as we walk through this building block as we get onto some deeper things later that this will be helpful to you.
These are all filters. It does matter and you'll hopefully begin to see the practical issues as we get onto some other things.
What I'd like to do, and it's not working Chris, tell me when it's ready.
The meaning. I think it's very important to first side. What does it mean that you are actually in dwell for the Spirit in the first place?
I think when you figure that out, it perhaps the answer not question. How many read the email I put out today? I just raised the basic question.
All right, you know, I hope that this will take you there. Let's look at a couple text.
Romans chapter 8, Paul talks a good bit about the actual indwelling of the Spirit and he keeps saying the Spirit in you, in you, in you, in you.
He says it's a multiplications in that text and he says, you are our control not by the sinful nature but by the Spirit if the Spirit of God lives in you.
And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, notice he does not belong to Christ.
All right, think of implications of that. If a person does not have the Spirit, he is not an inferior Christian and if you have the Spirit, you are an advanced Christian. No, it just says you're not a Christian.
If you have the Spirit, you're not superior. You know what simply means that you are Christian.
Simple enough. You all know about parallelism. If you're teaching this, even remember from high school they come up parallelism.
Two statements that are put side by side, one defining the other. Well, you'll find a good bit of that in the Psalms.
Now remember Psalm 51, there's a context for Psalm 51 and remember what it was.
King David, you're right, who said that? All right, what was going on in King David's life and context? What prompted him to write this song?
Yeah, he had, this is that moment with Bathsheba, it's in the aftermath of all of this. He's caught, you know, red handed, trying to hide it from God.
God's people, life is a downspin and he's committed adultery, a child out of wedlock, he's murdered the husband.
It's just a really thought thing, but it's pretty deep. He dug for himself.
And in the context of this, he writes the song in the aftermath and of course there's a lot of beauty that comes out of this song, his understanding of forgiveness.
But he also understands some other things and you'll know what he says and there's a reason that therefore he says it.
That is this. Do not cast me from your presence or paralleled, do not take your Holy Spirit from me.
Now, if you pay attention to that in the context, he's telling you what the actual indwelling and presence of the Spirit in your life means to you.
If you remember back in first Samuel, when God had identified David as being the new future king and Samuel was the prophet and David shows up where he goes to David and he says he annoy some of the oil and said the Spirit came upon David.
There is the reception moment and David knew about the Spirit's empowering of his life and presence in his life.
And so in the aftermath, now he's wondering, well, God, are you now going to withdraw yourself from me? And there was his concern.
So what are we learning from this? Very simply that the indwelling Spirit means something. It means that we have fellowship with God, that God has fellowship with us through His Spirit.
That's what the actual presence of the Spirit means in your life. It's a relational issue.
Of course, as I just simply raised a question, if the Holy Spirit is God, then how do you answer questions? How do we receive the Holy Spirit?
It's the same question as how do you receive God? Is it not? Well, it should be. You should find some parallels with that.
So now, let me take you to this. And this is one of those little filters that makes sense if we get more into this context of this. But let me play this out for you.
This is a little taste of theology. And yes, it does have some practical implications later on. So pay attention.
This is something that I encountered a great deal of in my college years. There was a time that this is where I saw it.
And if I were to teach it, this is what I would have taught. But some things kind of intervened on that. And I said, I don't think I agree with this anymore.
That is this. That conversion or your Christian life basically comes in two stages. You have your initial moment of conversion.
But you're not complete yet as a Christian. You're considered incomplete. That is, you receive a partial filling of the Spirit. The Spirit comes in fragmentation.
And later on, you kind of get to this upgrade. We'll get to this in a minute. You go through kind of an upgrade, a supplement. That is what it actually returned the second work of grace.
Which is a bit interesting. The second work, grace, when you get to this up here. But that you receive the Spirit later on. And some reason I put a question mark is the timeframe is unknown.
It's different between person to person, depending on your experiences. That later on, you receive the second work of grace where the Spirit of God comes in fullness to your life.
So now if I hold on to this as a framework of how things work from God, then I'm going to be obviously pursuing this.
And how you pursue this is you do certain things. You yield your life more fully. You surrender your life. You go through a purifying. You perfect your life. You get your life at a state where the Spirit can come in its fullness.
So just kind of let that settle with you for a second. And start thinking what are the implications of this.
By the way, this is a very common framework, although you may not hear it articulated this way. This is what's being suggested to you.
In fact, I would say this is probably the most common hell view in Christodum in America today.
Now, let's go to some texts. And I think we'll find that God does help us frame this. I don't want to finish this class.
I want you to just give you enough to start weighing some of this and then we'll finish this up next week.
Galatians chapter three. Now, before we actually read the text, you all start looking at the text. Tell me what Galatians is about.
There's a context of this. It's always important to understand the context. Don't just plop in the middle of something. Start reading it.
If you don't know context, then you can run a thousand different ways with this and miss the actual fundamental point.
Why did Paul write the letter of Galatians? It's really one fundamental issue.
Yeah, pardoned. It's over one issue. What is the one issue that keeps coming up?
The Paul keeps talking about invalations. And it was a Jewish thing that was being bound upon Gentiles. Circumcision.
All right. Now, Galatians, you got the Mediterranean Sea. You got Palestine and up. North region up there is Galatians.
One of the first places Paul went when he did his first missionary trip and started sharing a gospel and a bunch of people up there were Gentiles became Christians.
Word got down to Jerusalem to Jewish Christians. He said, hey, there's these Gentile creatures up there. Some of them were sent up there and traveled up there to go check them out.
So it was their job to check them out and be the gatekeeper of the side. Whether or not they could be really Christians or not.
Redox, it comes out of this. In fact, X-15, a big pow while I have one of all the leaders of church came together and ironed us out.
And it was almost duked out. It was over this issue. Those are the big to do.
So these Jewish Christians come up there and said, oh, are you Christians? They said, yes, we're Christians. They said, that's wonderful.
So have you been circumcised talking to, of course, the nails and they said circumcision? Well, no. Oh, well, that's a problem. You're not really a Christian then.
What you've Paul didn't finish up the message. He didn't give you everything you needed. So what you need to do now is you guys, I mean, sorry to say, but if you really want to be a Christian, you want to be a completed Jew.
Because that's where it came from. We're the origin of this thing. God gave the law. The law was not meant to be put aside. So here, you guys just line up and let's go.
And we're going to make you real Christians by being circumcised. Of course, Paul gets wind of this. And man, if you read this letter, he starts off saying it's anyone.
I mean, anyone preaches you a gospel other than the one you've already received from me, let that person be condemned. Let him go.
If they say something different, what I've already told you, big issue. This is not some peripheral issue. It's not Jesus plus circumcision. It's just Jesus.
And Paul went to Jerusalem, ready to fight this one out. Acts 15. Of course, they were all listening to the spirit of God, which is the language used in Acts 15. They all came to peace on this one.
And they didn't bind us on those Gentile Christians. So the church listened to God. So let's remember the bottom line was they were really sensitive to God and they did what they were supposed to do.
But it was a really difficult issue for the Jewish Christians to see these Gentiles on equal footing when they weren't following their law.
So there's the context of this letter. Now, it'll make more sense then when you read how Paul comes at them to remind these now confused, baffled, disoriented Gentile Christians up there,
who've been having these influence from these Jewish Christians who've been telling them that they weren't really Christians, how to work through this and those he does it theologically.
That is, he hasn't even thanked. How does God teach you? How did it work out? And he's going to ask a question, how did you receive the Spirit? He actually asks the question. So it's a very direct text.
You foolish Galatians because some of them had bought into this and Paul's really getting on to them. They should have known better. Who has bewitched you?
Is there so someone cast a spell on you and you just forgot everything that I told you and you just jipped on the van wagon and bunch of you have already been circumcised thinking that somehow that earned you a relationship with God through the law.
What's happened to you before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. Those crucifixion of Jesus and grace go together.
I would like to learn just one thing from you. Now, notice his argument.
Okay, I just want to make sure I didn't break this text down. Did you receive? Now, notice I got an old phrase in here. I define the grammar of this.
The word receive. What is it? What is it? What? What tense is it in? It's a worse tense. Now, I'm not trying to get you technical. I'm not trying to lose you guys. I just want you to understand that Paul's saying something very specifically and you want to study this text. You got to know this stuff.
Aorstance is something that took place at a specific point in time in the past. Did you receive a spirit in the past and they were there for or it's assumed that Paul says, you know what I'm talking about. When you see the spirit, I said, yes, remember, see even a spirit back back in our past, the spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard.
One question and there's only two options. Do you see that? How did you receive the spirit? You got one, two ways. You can work for it or you receive it as a grace. So which one are you going to choose?
Now, when you see the grace issue, you see how that affects us up here? You're doing it by your own actions or you're doing it by grace. You can't have both. Same framed idea.
Today, and what I was referring to, what I struggled with is that the Holy Spirit comes to different people in different ways, different times under certain conditions.
And it's kind of a just, you know, yeah, we all get the spirit of God, but you know, every person is comparing an apple with an orange there. You just can't put them together and say there's some consistency in terms of how God approaches people when it comes to receiving the spirit.
But Paul seems to frame this in very simple terms. How did you receive a spirit? Works along. You work your way. You earn it. You just get a position where God says, OK, this guy's life is so ready now. I'll just give it to him like he's not now that he's got his life where it's ought to be.
Because that's a certain theology there. We'll get to that in just a minute. What that assumes that you get your life together before the spirit comes.
So you could get your life together without the power of God. If a spirit of God is indeed doing us, we'll talk about that later.
I want you to say that Paul holds no such idea. Paul's question, did you receive the Holy Spirit by heroic deeds, yielding, surrender, purifying your life where by another means that he says down here, I believe in what you heard. We'll get to that in just a moment.
There he goes on to say this. Notice after what? Beginning with the spirit. So where does Paul place the reception process?
The beginning of what? Beginning of faith, the beginning of keep, keep translating. When you became when you believed what you heard.
Some texts have a hearing of faith. You hear the message of Jesus, you believe it and you receive the Holy Spirit.
So, you know, in quote, did you receive Holy Spirit by doing all the law? Did you simply listen to the message of Jesus and it was as it was proclaimed and believe it and you get the spirit.
When does the Holy Spirit come? At the beginning of the Christian life, not somewhere undefined and unknown portion later on, a second work of grace, but in the beginning.
It seems very simple and you all also assume that these people got this. They knew this. In other words, he's asking rhetorical questions and they're answering it.
The Holy Spirit doesn't come after yielding and praying and proving yourself. It's not now that I'm a Christian. I'm going to seek the Holy Spirit now and its fullness.
The Holy Spirit really does help as it seems to me that I need them in the beginning when my life's amassed, not after I've somehow worked it out of my own and made myself a better receptor for it.
Understand? The practicality of this? If you accept the theology that you get your life together, then you receive the false spirit. You're saying that you do this on your own power.
Can you live the moral ethical demands of living like Jesus in this world unless God is empowering you to do it?
If you can, then you don't need God and you don't need the Holy Spirit.
Nor do you need Jesus dying on the cross for you to do it. But if I need God, if I need His empowerment, His help in my weakness,
then I don't need Him after I've worked and surrendered and done all these things I'm supposed to do. I need Him in the beginning because I can't get there without Him.
I can do nothing apart from Him. Jesus felt that way. We should feel that way.
I think it was on the side. Have you suffered so much for nothing? If it really was for nothing, does God give and hear its presence?
That is, He has presently given and is continuously given. In other words, God gave you the Spirit, a orus tense.
Now He's saying, does God continue to offer a Spirit to you? Does it continue to reside? Does God continue to stay in a relationship with your life personally?
Does He give you a Spirit and work miracles among you because you observe the law or because you believe what you heard?
Again, grace, grace, grace is constantly the argument of Paul. And I understand my way is arguing about He's talking about the circumstances in issue with those Christians up in Galicia.
You understand the context and this makes sense.
So I answer the question so far, how do we receive the Spirit? Number one, grace simply by faith.
And very specifically, again, number two, in the beginning.
When Jesus and I connected.
Okay, now let's build on that.
John 7, very interesting text. I love the gospel of John.
On the last and greatest day of the feast, I need to give you a framework for this as well. It's worth knowing.
First of all, do you know what Feast He's talking about? It is Feast of Tabernacles.
Now, there were three major feast days in the Jewish year. Big celebrations like our Christmas and Easter was the Feast of Pentecost, Feast of Tabernacles and the Feast of Passover.
On those major feast days, every male I think was 15 or over, if you lived within a certain, you know, within 15 or so miles, you're expected to be in Jerusalem engaging this moment.
It was, you know, I mean, who would want to, you know, take time off of work and feast for a week. So it was a, you know, a big deal.
It's like someone invited to the Super Bowl. Come on and come to Super Bowl and everyone wants to go.
And that's why people from all over the Mediterranean world, even those who live very far away, would take long, long pilgrimages, sometimes, you know, months at a time just to arrive in Jerusalem.
So they can at least once in their life experience these moments in the presence of God, because we're the dwell in the temple.
And that's where it was and that's what they wanted to be. So the closer you got to the temple, the closer you were to God. Well, that's for free.
At least in their minds. The, you know, pizza tabernacles was rather interesting. Every day for the seven days of the feast, you know, since the last day of the feast was the seventh day, they carried on a water ceremony.
So the priest on duty that day would take one of the golden, holy vessels, a pitcher, and he would walk down to the downhill outside the water gate,
which you'll see why it's called a water gate just a minute. And there was a, the pool salon. And he would fill it up. Now all the people were, were following in a parade and they carried two different kind of branches in their hands.
One was a citrus branch. And once was a lullaby camera, which kind of branch it was. We're just seeing old oak tree and maple tree branch, right? And they're walking down and they are singing songs as they're waving the branches.
And they're singing the halal songs, Psalm 113, 118. You can read them later. They would sing these songs. They would also be citing certain texts like Isaiah 12-3, which speaks about how God will draw water from the well of salvation.
And he's talking about Isaiah 44-3. We're talking about he will pour water on the thirsty land. And streams will, will go out onto the dry land. And I will pour out my spirit upon all mankind. You see that he associates water with the spirit of God using the imagery that they experienced in the desert.
And this is very extra in their mind. It's their history. They understand this stuff. And they understand when they're singing these verses. And so we sat in these verses in celebration of this moment. Now what did God do in the desert when it came to water?
They got thirsty so God supplied water from a rock. And of course that's the Moses figure. Remember Moses predicted a profit would come greater than him. And Jesus is associating him here himself with this moment. I'm that guy by the way. He's being very direct about it. And by the way at the end of this chapter they want to stone him. Well there's a reason because he's claiming something that he's not allowed to claim. He's claiming to be God. And they don't like this.
So rather than hiding back, this is really what you got to get out of this chapter in John 17. Jesus is almost antagonistic about this. I will not go and hide about this issue. You want me just to go with the flow?
Just acknowledge myself as a typical frat rabbi like the rest of you guys being underling under you. Great superior guys. But I'm telling you I am this God.
The one promise from the Old Testament. The one is calm. I am the Messiah. I am the anointed. And I've come to offer you the spirit of God. And they understood this by these ceremonies. Well this is the last and greatest day of the feast. And they've just there somewhere in this parading process. Jesus stops it.
Now in that context, notice what he says. Jesus stood instead in a loud voice. A lot of people. If anyone is thirsty.
But it's thirst. Hear these people thinking about being in the desert that our ancestors parched. But they understood it was more than simply the tangible water that God brought from the desert. And not only thanking God for the reins that they currently received.
Because they were agricultural society and how they needed God to send the reins so they could sustain life.
Which is part of what the speech tabernacles was about. But they understood it also metaphorically, spiritually.
Notice whoever believes in me as the scriptures has said. Stream. Those are trickles. Overwhelming flood of waters will flow from within him.
Now if you know the gospel of John, John will often say, you know, we didn't really get it when Jesus said it at that moment. But now that I've thought about it, the spirit of God has illuminated this in my life.
Let me tell you what it means. And he gives these parentheticals. And he does it throughout the gospel of John. He goes, here's one of those moments. Let me tell you what he meant.
By this, he meant the spirit whom those who believed in him were later to receive. Most hadn't been given yet.
Up to that time, the spirit had not yet been given since Jesus had not yet been glorified.
So John, been very careful so you can see the connection between Jesus and the receiving of the spirit. You disconnect those, you got bad theology.
Now, beautiful context. But the simple question, again, trying to answer the question, how do you receive the spirit? Well, thirdly, faith, not just faith, but faith in Jesus.
I already knew that. That's assumed. No, it's not assumed. Whether it's assumed to that audience, that's what got him as much trouble when he said it.
It's not what people necessarily believe today. Not what I was taught for a portion when I was circulating around certain groups and trying to learn and figure this out.
I wanted to spirit and wanted to make sure I had all of it and wasn't sure if I did or not. I went through this process and basically I was told to have faith in the spirit.
In fact, I was articulated out on more than one occasion, very directly. Not by assumption, but by you need to put your faith in the spirit.
I said, okay, so now I got my faith in Jesus and I got my faith in the spirit. And it kind of said, well, it's the same thing to the both God. All I know is the text is very clear. Jesus says, they in need.
Now, let's go back to our basic key phrase. The spirit's work is what centered in Jesus Christ. Say it with me again out loud. The spirit's work is centered in Jesus Christ. The spirit does not come to point to himself.
The spirit is active when you see him pointing away from himself to Jesus. When you see Jesus being highlighted, Jesus being glorified, Jesus being the center of attention, you know the spirit of God has been active.
Again, I keep telling you if you pay attention to that vessel I created and fill it up with things I'm giving you here, it will actually have a practical implication of how you filter through all the narrative things you're being told or encounter.
I just watch television and I run into this and I struggle with it. Man, I don't want to miss this. I mean, I don't want to miss any of God. I want all right.
So, so what is the condition? I fate in the beginning, Paul says, and that fate is in Jesus. One more text will pick up next week.
Well, for those views from Restoration Roots and First of Christ, this is a familiar text. It's funny though how I heard this text. I could quote it without even really caring too when I got out of high school and I always missed this.
We never talked about this aspect of it. And we're going to go back. By the way, I'm going to take you through the book of Acts very quickly.
It's really fascinating to look at because the spirit activity there is very demonstrative and you learn a great deal. And it's also where there's a lot of confusion, at least why I got confused.
And I would say the other is like a fusion beyond just myself, but I certainly own part of it.
I remember this the first time the message of Jesus was ever articulated. It's 50 days after the death, burial, resurrection of Jesus, Jesus went through 40 days of resurrection of appearances. These guys, I mean, they knew.
Jesus was physical body, but he kind of beamed him, beamed out. They knew something different about him. He didn't have the same limitations. Resurrection wasn't. He wasn't a disembodied spirit ghosting in and out. He was a tender. He ate with them. They talked with them. They got to touch him. They experienced him with all their senses.
This is these, although they had trouble recognizing them sometimes, but I always find that interesting to like the road to Emmaus, but that's we don't have time.
Jesus preached. You have the outpouring of the spirit. This promise that has been made for centuries. All of a sudden happened.
They preached a message of Jesus that people says are cut to the heart. You know, we haven't been really sitting and thinking where they are. We'll do this later on.
These guys were just, I mean, I can't quite, you know, I remember getting caught doing some really bad things by my parents. I remember when I almost fainted.
They scared my dad, but I felt like it was the wall when he caught me drinking them.
And I mean, I'm talking just, well, that's what these guys were. They were just like, I mean, just a little impeter response with them.
So, you know, we hear these words. We just, you know, seem to just a little slice of theology. Here's a point 1.2. We missed the whole point of this.
It bothers me that we missed the point of these moments. But if you take the time to understand the context, it means so much more.
Peter replied, by the way, in between the lines, there's hope, guys, don't panic.
Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins.
The part, you know, the forgotten God part. I could quote if I had an athlete no idea what it meant growing up.
And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Now, if you were a Jew, you understood it because they didn't promise you this all throughout Old Testament prophecies. Good theology.
And the promise is for you, you Jews right here now, and your children, your ancestors, just trace them on to the future, and to all who are far off, even to these Gentiles.
Although, I'm not sure if Peter quite grasped that one yet.
In other words, he's coming out of prophecies and they keep saying, you know, like the Gentiles, Gentiles get it too, but they're always thinking they're going to be kind of stepped children to us Jews.
You've got superior Christian Jews and you've got these guys that won't let them come on in and it's going to live on the outhouse and claim to be Christian.
You with me are Messiah to all who are far off. No, even they get the Spirit of God. Well, you put that together.
You get the Spirit. What do you get? Okay, we're for all whom the Lord God will call.
Now, okay. Well, let me just do this.
I would say that if you just look at justice text, it's building on the issue and we're going to come back to this.
My faith in the beginning that focus of faith is in the person of Jesus.
I'm not seeing with my attention and my energy put on the Spirit of God and getting them and trying to coerce them into getting into my life.
No, that energy is put toward Jesus and then I thirst for him, that relationship of God, that intimacy, that yearning that's deep inside that God put in there that I tend to ignore.
Well, I'm pursuing all the other trivial pursuits of my life, the inferiorities of my life.
God, but if you put your face in Jesus and you try to let him quench your thirst, you believe in him, you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
That is a very dynamic promise.
So I would say through or in the context of, clearly here, baptism.
Now, I got more to say about this. You know, it's not the only place that Paul and other people talk about this.
In this case, it was Peter. Really, it's Luke writing about what Peter said.
So before we end, let me get you to just go and read something.
Colossians chapter 2. I'm going to start there.
I think it'd be good if I started there. I might put it in the slide. It's not in the slide right now.
Colossians 2, but I'm going to ask you, what's the context of Colossians?
To you understand the context, Colossians just like to you understand the context. What was going on?
In other words, why did Paul write this church in Colossians? What was going on there that made it so necessary?
Paul didn't just like to say, you know, something, I just love those people over in Colossians so much.
I'll just write a letter and just make up a bunch of things whether it's going on over there or not.
Obviously, there were things that were, they call the occasion or things happening there.
And Paul gets wind of them and goes, man, I need to, you know, I'm the apostle.
I'm the one who's responsible for the faith of these people and how they develop and what they believe and how they act and live.
And they need to be tweaked a little bit because they've kind of marched into something like these Galatians do that is warping their Christian lives.
And they started with how they believed. And so he writes this letter and has a lot to do with Jesus again as you'd expect.
They got Jesus wrong to get Jesus wrong. You get yourself wrong.
So Colossians 2, and he's going to speak about receiving God in fullness.
The Greek word, pleroma.
And now think of fullness. When you run that text in Clash of 2, you'll get, well, we'll get the fullness of God.
And when do you receive fullness in God? There's the question that he's going to raise there because they're thinking they got it in stages.
You get a little bit of Jesus and you get a little bit when you add all these other addendums to it.
What scholars call the Colossian Heresy because of such a unique gathering of different beliefs that they can, they had to just, they just labeled it Colossian Heresy.
And I want you to read the chapter and that knows the question, he's answering.
What happens when you get Jesus? And that word fullness is planted right in the middle of it.
So what is he telling you? Yes?
He goes back to the Greek word. When we said the spirit was considered in Christ, what does that say?
You are a chronicle leader of the Jesus Christ who started to look into that. Is that, is that the spirit as well?
Are you saying the spirit prompting his interest to me? Yes, if we don't receive it.
I'm sorry to say that did you work even if those people lied for them to look for Christ?
Good question.
And I'll tell you, scholarship can take you over here and over here with that. I've got some alive things.
The spirit's work is centered in. If Jesus is being the emphasized, glorified, pursued person, then I assume what?
That the spirit is active.
Of course, you believe this. How do you resist the spirit?
Not just that. God can't find invitation on coercion. Have we not all learned this in our own lives?
If God worked by coercion, every one of the faces of the earth would be a believer and they would be perfect.
Do this or die. Do this or put a pressure on a punch right now. Okay, I'll do it.
I mean, God, God, most powerful being the creator, he can do anything he wants. He has the power to force any issue he wishes, but he chooses not to.
Thus, the whole story of Jesus, which seems rather indirect way to get our attention.
There are more demonstrative ways to overwhelm us, but God chooses not to overwhelm us. He invites.
Even the miracles, look at the mirror, this is all for Fred. We're out of the class here, but all the miracles, they know how subtle and non-demonstrative they are.
Sometimes, Jesus would form miracles and say, I don't want anyone to know about this. So, I'll let you, Peter, you're Peter, you got to come, but, and just don't say nothing about it.
Always playing it down, always being very unassuming about the whole process when the power of God is being exerted.
The Cross of Christ is an appeal. It's a, boy, I love you and please come, and it's a very powerful one, but there's another course about it.
Well, God, the Spirit, is no different. That is His, He's gentle, He's patient, He's kind, He is what He produces, the fruit of the Spirit.
And so, do I think the Spirit is creating, orchestrating, drawing, yes, absolutely.
And of course, the question, well, how, is it simply because of the message, you know, He inspires a message, someone gets up and preaches Jesus, so that's the Spirit. Well, I say, that is the Spirit call, that's the Spirit talking.
But it's the accurate message of Jesus, that's the Spirit talking.
But is there, you know, is the order of those things? Is He operate? We talk about the providence of God, God somehow involved in mysterious ways in our world and creating certain stances in our own life and lives of others, helping missionaries reach people. Yeah, I think it's a spirit of God.
Well, we're going to get more into that stuff later for good question and a debated one.
Well, anyway, let's end there. We'll pick up the recalashes to pay attention to us. We're going to pick up next week and it's a really, it's a profound lesson that you're going to learn when you understand what Paul's saying to the clock and the context of it.
Let's pray.
